# Gravity Generator Construction Instructions


Use of these construction instructions may be restricted by licensing agreements and fees.  These constructions instructions are provided on the condition that no risk or liability is ever in any way attributable to the inventor, author, or contributors to these construction instructions.


OVERVIEW

Units provide for clean continuous portable self-contained physics powered energy generation and propulsion, by transferring force generated through hydraulics and or pneumatics and or mechanical leverage and or motorized mechanical leverage, to cause the flow of a medium, to spin a turbine, to power an electricity generator, and or rotate an axle to provide the propulsion of a traditional motor, where energy may be captured in excess of that consumed as a result of the differential between input force required and output force provided by certain force providing device configurations, as well as a result of the differential between the linear force used to elevate the medium and the compounding force provided by gravity during medium drop.  The invention permanently solves global warming, provides reduced cost of living to alleviate poverty, provides unlimited clean energy for evaporated water purification and atmospheric carbon dioxide splitting, and eliminates the need for every other method of energy production, including nuclear technology – thus reducing nuclear weapons technology proliferation.

ILLUSTRATIONS

FIG. 1 is an illustration of an example of embodiment of the invention, which utilizes hydraulics and mechanical leverage operating to circulate a medium through piping between two containers on a levered support structure, to rotate a turbine to provide rotational force to an electricity generator axle to generate electricity and or to rotate or function as a motor axle.

FIG. 2, containing some components in FIG. 1, is an illustration of an example of an embodiment of an automated hydraulic pump and cylinder whose piston operates another hydraulic pump handle to operate its corresponding cylinder piston to improve input output efficiency.

FIG. 3 is an illustration of an example of an embodiment of a traditional electric hydraulic pump and cylinder which in some embodiments may be used in place of the converted manual to automatic hydraulic pump and cylinder in FIG. 1.
 
DETAILED DESCRIPTION

Step 1: obtain medium containers.  The principal limiting factor in providing output is medium flow to rotate the turbine to rotate a generator axle or function as a motor, and therefore the principal limiting factor in providing output is ultimately the physical size of the medium containers, and so they may be selected first, and then supporting components and output determined by working backwards from the size of the medium containers.  the medium to be used is water, which allows the medium containers to be easily filled on site, thus reducing shipping costs while allowing for the medium containers to be emptied at any time without causing environmental harm.  In some embodiments, the medium to be used is a liquid metal, for example zinc which is over six times as heavy as water, to allow for faster unit cycles while utilizing smaller containers.  In some embodiments, the medium may be any other liquid, though when accounting for safety and durability, a non-corrosive non-toxic medium may be used.  In some embodiments, if the unit is to be run outside, in temperatures below freezing, a liquid with a lower freezing point than water may be used, or an anti-freeze agent may be added.  In some embodiments, the medium may be a non-liquid, such as metal balls.  In some embodiments, any medium that allows for rotational force to be generated may be used.  In some embodiments, components including the medium containers are selected to provide optimal flow to the selected turbine.

Two low profile medium containers are used to hold the transferrable medium, secured to the ends of a support platform, and are raised and lowered on a cycle that allows each to become approximately either full or empty each cycle.  In some embodiments, the medium containers may be constructed from scratch, where a material such as sheets of polyethylene or stainless steel may be welded together, with each wall of adequate thickness so as not to deform over time.  In some embodiments, where the medium is water, to approximately calculate the dimensions of the containers based on medium volume, utilize calculations accounting for water having a volume of 1 cubic foot per 7.48 gallons (1 cubic meter per 1000 liters), where the total volume of water in cubic feet (meters) may be spread across any combination of tank length, width, and height.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the height of the tanks may be reduced while extending the widths and maintaining or reducing the lengths to reduce the raising and lowering distance and cycle time and thus increase output efficiency.  In some embodiments, an alternative container or conduit for circulating a medium in the system may be used, including a water wheel.

The containers are two 1,000 gallon (3,790 liter) low profile polyethylene tanks, each having a volume of 135 cubic feet (1,000 gallons / 7.48 cubic feet per gallon) (3.83 cubic meters), spread across dimensions of 1.5 feet (0.5 meters) high by 9 feet (2.7 meters) wide by 10 feet (3 meters) long, with each weighing approximately 400 pounds (181 kilograms).  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to reduce the raising and lowering distance and cycle time, alternative sizes may be used, for example, 1 foot (0.3 meters) high by 1 foot (0.3 meters) long by 134 feet (41 meters) wide.  In some embodiments, medium containers may be comprised of countless other dimensions, volumes, and materials.

In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, in order to maintain continuous output, medium flow interruption is prevented during medium container transition by emptying the elevated outer medium container into a center top medium container before transitioning, therefore providing continuous medium flow to the drop pipe and thus the turbine during outer medium container transition, with a center bottom medium container receiving the medium flow, after it passes the turbine, before it flows into the lowered outer medium container, and where the flow between the center and outer medium containers may be at a higher rate than between the top center medium containers and the turbine, to allow for the outer tanks to quickly exchange the medium with the center medium containers.  However, the addition of center medium containers may make self-construction of embodiments in extreme poverty situations prohibitively complex, as well as making the embodiment of greater height, thus consuming more space which may not be readily available indoors, and therefore attaching an uninterruptable power supply to the unit may be the simplest option for continuous output, though utilities may not require continuous output because multiple embodiments operating simultaneously in a staggered manner can provide continuous output.

In some embodiments, to provide a specific horsepower at a specific number of revolutions per minute, to provide rotational force as required by a generator axle and or to function as a motor, in order to determine the pounds of force required, horsepower is equal to pounds of force multiplied by revolutions per minute with the result divided by the horsepower constant of 5252.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to convert pounds of force from the previous calculation to pound feet of force, as used in the standard calculation of horsepower, a gear may be placed on the generator and or motor axle, which is coupled to the force providing gear immediately before it, where each of those gears have a radius of 1 foot (0.3 meters), while maintaining all gear ratios in the system.  In some embodiments, to accurately measure the rotational force and speed provided by the turbine, a torque gauge may be used to measure pound feet of force, and a tachometer may be used to determine revolutions per minute, or alternatively a dynamometer may be used which measures pound feet of force as well as revolutions per minute, and then horsepower may be calculated as pound feet of force multiplied by revolutions per minute with the result divided by the horsepower constant 5252.

The set of factors required to validate the embodiment as providing a self-powered generator, are the speed and power consumption of the medium container raising and lowering force providing devices, the speed and force provided by the medium flow volume and drop to rotate the turbine, the speed and force required by the generator, and that gears increase speed in proportion to reduction of force.  In some embodiments, to calculate the approximate embodiment output, water may be used, where water has a weight of 8.34 pounds per gallon (1 kilogram per liter), 1 cubic foot of water is 7.48 gallons (1 cubic meter of water is 1000 liters), water drops as a result of gravity at approximately 20 miles per hour (32 kilometers per hour) or 29.3 feet (8.9 meters) per second, with a force of 0.433 pounds of pressure per square inch per foot of drop (9.81 kilopascals per meter of drop), and the total square inches (centimeters) of water flowing through the pipe calculated as the pipe radius squared times the constant Pi of 3.14, where the rotational speed provided by the turbine may be increased utilizing gears with gear ratios that increase speed in proportion to a reduction in force.  In some embodiments, to calculate the approximate cycle time of the specified gallons, where the water flow per second is calculated as the pipe radius in cubic feet (meters) multiplied by the 29.3 feet ((20 miles per hour * 5,280 feet per mile) / (60 minutes * 60 seconds)) per second that water flows multiplied by the gallons of water in the system.  In some embodiments, to approximately calculate total output of the system, the generator output is multiplied by the cycle time of the medium flow in seconds, and then subtracted from the total medium container transition height which includes the heights of the tanks and the pipes multiplied by the speed of the medium container raising and lowering force providing devices in inches per second.  In some embodiments, energy may be captured in excess of that consumed, as a result of linear force being utilized to elevate the medium, while gravity creates compounding force on the medium as it falls.

To approximately calculate the cycle time of the embodiment, 1000 gallons (3,790 liters) of water are used weighing approximately 8,340 pounds (3,783 kilograms), with each tank weighing 400 pounds (181 kilograms), for a total of 9,140 pounds (4,145 kilograms), which is raised then held then lowered on a continuous cycle, utilizing later described force providing devices, which for example may be a hydraulic piston and pump, with the water passing through piping providing a diameter of 10 inches (0.25 meters) to rotate a turbine with a corresponding diameter of almost 10 inches (0.25 meters), where the 10 inch (0.25 meters) diameter pipe providing a drop of 6 feet (1.83 meters), may provide 2.6 pounds of pressure per square inch (6 feet * 0.433 pounds) (17.9 kilopascals), over an area of 78.5 square inches ((5 inch radius ^ 2) * 3.14 constant pi) (32,260 square millimeters), for a total of 204 pounds (93 kilograms) of force at 20 miles (32 kilometers) per hour, with rotations per minute of the turbine axle calculated where water as determined by gravity flows at about 20 miles (32 kilometers) per hour or 21,020 inches (536 meters) per minute, and an 10 inch (0.2 meters) diameter turbine has a circumference of 31.4 inches (10 inch diameter * 3.14), with a turbine therefore providing around 336 revolutions per minute ((21,120 inches of water flow per minute / 31.4 turbine diameter) * 50% efficiency), where a 10,000 watt generator may require 1,800 revolutions per minute and 13.3 horsepower, requiring the turbine rotational force be connected to the generator through a gear pair with a teeth ratio that approximately increases speed 5 times and decreases force by 5 times, therefore providing around 41 pounds (23 kilograms) of force at 1681 revolutions per minute, which is 13.1 horsepower ((41 pounds of force * 1681 revolutions per minute))/5252 horsepower constant), therefore allowing each system cycle to sustain generator output of 10,000 watts, where the cycle time of the specified gallons (liters) can be approximately calculated, utilizing a pipe radius of 10 inches (0.25 meters) providing the previously calculated area of 78.5 square inches or 0.55 square feet (0.05 square meters), results in water flow per second of 16 cubic feet (29.3 feet per second * 0.55 square feet of pipe) (0.45 cubic meters), which is 120 gallons (16 cubic feet * 74.8 gallons per cubic foot) (454 liters) per second, therefore 1,000 gallons (3,785 liters) will flow through system over approximately 8.3 seconds (1,000 gallons / 120 gallons per second) (3,785 liters / 291 liters per second).  to approximately calculate total output of the system, a total transition height may be used of 120 inches (18 inch tank heights x 2 + 72 inch drop pipe + 12 inches of intermediary piping) (3 meters), where the force providing devices may move at 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) per 5 seconds over 120 inches (3 meters) while the motor to operate the force providing device pump handle consumes 55 watts, resulting in a net positive output per cycle of 50,000 watts ((10,000 watts provided * 8.3 seconds) – (55 watts consumed * 5 seconds per inch * 120 inches)).  For validation through comparative reference, a wind turbine typically provides optimal rotational force at around 20 revolutions per minute which is then passed through gears to increase speed while reducing force to power a generator, where this is providing approximately 204 pounds (93 kilograms) of rotational force at the same speed.  For additional validation, an alternative method for calculating the watts of output able to be provided by water flow is watts of output is equal to water drop in meters multiplied by water flow in liters per second multiplied by gravity of 9.8 meters per second.  For example, a drop of 72 inches (1.82 meters) providing flow of 120 gallons (454 liters) per second multiplied 9.8 results in a power output calculation of approximately 8,100 watts (1.82 meter drop * 454 liters per second * 9.8 meters per second of gravity), which is close to the output previously calculated, and would therefore provide net positive output per cycle of approximately 34,200 watts ((8,100 watts provided * 8.3 seconds) – (55 watts consumed * 5 seconds per inch * 120 inches)).

In some embodiments, to extend power generation output and or cycle time, a greater volume of medium is circulated each time, where the extra force and power consumption required of the motor to operate the hand operable hydraulics is minimal relative to the increase in embodiment output.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to reduce unit cycle time, more powerful force providing devices may be used, which may be additionally moved inward to reduce transition time, but may require greater force as they don't receive the full benefit of the levered platform.  In some embodiments, any amount of the rotational output force may be instead directed to function as a motor.

In some embodiments, the tops of medium containers 1200 1201 are open, and are filled with a medium when lowered into a medium reservoir, with all electronic components maintained safely away from exposure to the medium, where when the medium containers are elevated after being filled, and then the medium flows from the elevated medium container, either to an elevated reservoir, or through drop pipe 1305, where pressure can then be created using gravity, for the medium to be provided to pipes for delivery to endpoints, eliminating the need for a pump.  For example, a water utility, rather than incurring the costs of pumping, can elevate the water from a reservoir and deliver it to customers by using gravity provided water pressure.

Step 2: obtain the desired turbine and generator.  A generator is added.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the generator selected outputs the volts, amperes, and hertz of the desired final output, with a converter utilized of the appropriate specifications to power internal embodiment components.  a turbine is added. the turbine utilized is a low head high flow turbine. In some embodiments, any turbine may be used that provides adequate rotational force to the generator axle and or motor axle in conjunction with the provided medium flow. In some embodiments, when used as a motor, a generator may be left out, with the power for the unit components provided by an external source.

In reference to FIG. 1, turbine 1300 is a Kaplan turbine, which roughly resembles a fan blade on an axle, and is designed to provide rotational force with 6 feet (1.82 meters) of water drop, which may be purchased in a self-enclosed unit that accepts piping, or may have a blade of a diameter just less than the interior diameter of the previously determined pipe diameter of 10 inches (0.25 meters), where the turbine blade edges may be sanded so as to not touch the pipe, and the turbine is appropriately oriented in the pipe to support optimal output.

In reference to FIG. 1, generator 1500 has a rated output of 10,000 watts when provided 1,800 revolutions per minute and 13.3 horsepower, where the horsepower specified requires force of 38.8 pounds (17.6 kilograms) ((13.3 = n pounds of force * 1800 revolutions per minute))/5252 horsepower constant).  In some embodiments, where a motor is principally desired, a generator may be used with a rated output providing only that required to provide power to the unit components, while allowing the rest of the rotational force to be provided to rotate the axle to function as a motor.

Where the speed of the axle rotated by the turbine is not adequate to rotate the generator at or near optimal speed, or rotate the motor axle to achieve the desired speed, gears may be attached to connect the force from the turbine axle to the generator axle selected utilizing gear ratios, which increase the speed of rotation while proportionately reducing the force based on the ratio of teeth on interconnected gears.  to achieve the previously determined requirement of a 5 times speed increase, gear 1401 with 25 teeth may be attached to the axle of turbine 1400 that interconnects with gear 1501 with 5 teeth on generator 1500.  In some embodiments, a gear box may be purchased that provides the desired increase in speed.  In some embodiments, other means of controlling speed may be used.

Step 3: construct a support structure.  a support structure for unit components is made of a material able to support the weight of the filled medium tanks and forces enacted by the raising and lowering force providing devices, for example, utilizing high grade steel.  the medium containers are positioned to provide optimal flow to the turbine, where the height of the support structure center beam, allows medium containers to become full and empty on each trip, and is therefore approximately half of the combined height of each medium container, plus the water drop pipe, and intermediary pipes, while the width of the structure is approximately the width of a medium container, plus the width of the both steel beams, while the length of the support structure is approximately the length of each end tank, plus if center tanks are used, the length of one center tank since the center tanks are vertically on top of each other, plus the length of the pipes, from the end tanks to the center medium containers, which may be of a length that minimizes the height the tanks need to be raised.  To optimize component fit, the exact sizes of the support structure may be determined at the time of construction, after available components have been purchased and or assembled.  In some embodiments, many of the embodiment components may be 3D printed, which may include the support structure, tanks, pipes, enclosure, and force providing devices.

In reference to FIG. 1, the support structure consists of 12 beams, connected together by means which may include welding, or bolting together through bolt holes drilled in appropriate locations, where 4 base beams 1000 1001 1002 1003 are assembled in a rectangle, with beams 1004 1005 extending from either side of the center of the width of the base, in order to support the liquid container see saw platform beams 1006 1007 1008 assembled in a rectangular formation, with beams 1005 1006 having holes drilled through the top center, which may contain bearings, and beams 1007 1008 having holes drilled through the middle center, to allow beam 1005 to be connected to beam 1006 with bolt 1009, and beam 1008 to be connected to beam 1006 with bolt 1010, with bolts of adequate thickness and strength to support the weight of the medium filled containers, to allow the see saw formation to operate back and forth, which provides the efficiency benefit of partial leverage, and with one side providing an optional extended lever, and with beams 1011 1012 1013 1014 extending vertically from beams 1006 1008 in a formation that prevents the left medium container from shifting forward and backward, and beams 1015 1016 positioned to prevent the left medium container from shifting laterally, and beams 1017 1018 1019 1020 extending vertically from beams 1006 1008 in a formation that holds right medium container in place, and beams 1021 1022 extending vertically from support beam 1006 1008 in a formation that prevents the right medium container from shifting laterally.

In reference to FIG. 1, the force from the force providing device piston is connected to a control arm, which operates the platform back and forth through the full required range of motion, where the control arm is constructed of 4 high strength beams 1023 1024 1025 1026, where beam 1023 is coupled to piston of cylinder 1100 by means which may include welding or having a hole drilled through it to be bolted to the piston's bolt port, beam 1024 bolted to beam 1023 and extending down to beam 1025, having a length of approximately the height of the piston, with beam 1025 bolted to the bottom of beam 1024 and welded to the bottom of beam 1007, with components connected and of adequate dimensions and spacing to allow the piston to control the platform through its full range of motion.  In some embodiments, a force providing device and associated control arm may be included on each side of the embodiment.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the control arm may be omitted and the medium containers are instead directly raised and lowered by the force providing devices.  In some embodiments, the force providing devices may be mounted horizontally from the base to the platform, and extend outward and upward.  In some embodiments, one or more force providing devices operate, instead of or in addition to tanks, a traditional water wheel structure to circulate a substance.

In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, where a see saw formation is not used, tanks may each be mounted on top of a raising and lowering force providing device, which is automated as provided for in this disclosure.  In some embodiments, where space constraints are less important and increased system efficiency is desired, an extended lever may be used, and or may be on each side of the structure, with each side of the support platform operated by its own additional set of force devices and controllers.

In embodiments where the tanks and or support platform transition height exceeds the height of an available force providing device, or accelerated cycle time is desired, force providing devices may be stacked, where corresponding control components as explained in this disclosure are repeated as needed, and where hydraulics or pneumatics are utilized, manual pump handles may be connected by a metal bar in a manner that allows them to be operable by one motor, where stacked force providing devices, if they utilize single acting cylinders, are stacked on each side of the tank support platform, operating in opposition, where when one set of cylinder pistons is raising the medium containers, the other set of cylinders has their release valves held by timer operated motors as provided for in this disclosure.

In some embodiments, the tanks may be raised and lowered by extended levers on one or both sides that are powered by one or more electric motor(s), with the efficiency provided by the levers, reducing the energy required by the electric motor(s). In some embodiments, the see saw platform formation may rotate to allow for the top tank to move vertically above the bottom tank.

Step 4: select and mount one or more force providing devices, including but not limited to hydraulic, pneumatic, mechanical leverage, motorized mechanical leverage, and or functionally equivalent device(s), where such a force providing device may be in the form of a unified unit or connected components.  Commodity hydraulics and pneumatics are available at the time of disclosure that may each provide force of up to 2,000,000 pounds (907,000 kilograms), and may be powered by means including an electric motor, which may be in the unit or in an external pump, which compresses a substance such as a liquid, gas, or air, to provide force to the hydraulics, pneumatics, or functional equivalents.  Commodity hand operable hydraulic bottle jacks are available at the time of disclosure with a 14 inch (35.6 millimeters) piston extension length and are rated to provide 100,000 pounds (45,360 kilograms) of force at roughly 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) every 5 seconds.  Commodity hand operable hydraulic pumps and cylinders are available at the time of disclosure that may provide force of up to 190,000 pounds (86,180 kilograms), where the piston may extend and retract at a rate of around 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) per 5 seconds.  A double acting cylinder in conjunction with a corresponding double acting pump provides both push and pull force.  Commodity mechanical leverage devices such as a screw jack are simply constructed and easily scalable devices, that at the time of disclosure may provide up to approximately 8,000 pounds (3,630 kilograms) of force each.  In some embodiments, electric motors may operate in conjunction with some means of leverage, including the leverage provided by the see saw platform with optional extended levers.  In some embodiments, a hydraulic motor is powered by a hydraulic pump, or interconnected hydraulic pumps, which raises and lowers the medium containers by means which may include rotating a chain suspended above and below while being connected to the support platform, or circulates the medium by means which may include being the motor in a medium pump.  force providing devices are targeted for utilization that along with other system components consume less energy than is produced by the generator.

In reference to FIG. 1, double acting hand operable hydraulic pump 1101 operates rear flange mounted double acting hydraulic cylinder 1100, whose piston is bolted to a platform control handle 1023, with the directional valve of pump 1101 connected to and operated by linear actuator 1102, and motor 1105 supported by support beam 1106, with axle of motor 1105 welded to one end of extension rod 1104, with extension rod 1104 bolted through a drilled hole on the other end to rotatable steel cuff 1103, created by slicing a piece of metal pipe of sufficient diameter and strength to allow the handle of pump 1101 to move a full cycle and bolted to rod 1104 in such a position that extension rod 1104 has little or no friction when completing full cycles of the handle of pump 1101, with directional valve linear actuator 1102 operated by repeat cycle timers or equivalents, as described in a later step, where if more appropriate the directional valves may be instead operated directly with electric motors.  the force providing devices selected provide a minimum of the force required to raise and lower the tanks and platform, and to support each tank becoming either full or empty each cycle, provide a total piston extension length adequate to move the containers fully up and down, which may be approximately calculated by adding together the heights of the tanks plus the height of the water drop pipe plus the height of intermediary pipes.  the force providing devices selected provide approximately 10,000 pounds (4,535 kilograms) of force and a piston extension length of approximately 120 inches (3 meters).  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the motor to operate the handle of the hand operable force providing device pump may provide force of 225 pounds (102 kilograms) while consuming a peak of 55 watts (12 volts at 4.6 amperes), which is dramatically more force than required to operate the pump handle to power the embodiment.  In some embodiments, cylinder 1100 and manual pump 1101 are replaced with ones that provide 100,000 pounds (45,360 kilograms) of force, while using the same handle motor to operate the hydraulic pump, where the tanks may hold the corresponding volume of water of up to approximately 11,990 gallons (100,000 pounds of lift / 8.34 pounds per gallon) (82,718 liters), thus nearly eliminating power consumption in the system relative to output.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, handle motor 1105 is replaced by a linear actuator connected to the handle, operated with an additional repeat cycle timer, connected in a manner similar to the later described repeat cycle timers, for the linear actuator to operate the handle in continuous back and forth cycles.  In some embodiments, force providing devices may be used on either side of the platform.  In some embodiments, to provide additional force, force providing devices may operate in parallel.

In some embodiments, including one complete embodiment when reduced embodiment power consumption is desired, rather than directly using an electric motor to operate pump handle(s), instead force providing device(s) including but not limited to hydraulic, pneumatic, mechanical leverage, motorized mechanical leverage, and or functional equivalents, instead provide the force required to operate the pump handle.  In some embodiments, including one complete embodiment when reduced embodiment power consumption is desired, in reference to FIG. 2, which utilizes some components previously labeled in FIG. 1, hydraulic cylinder 2000 is powered by hydraulic pump 2001 with directional valve of pump 2001 controlled by linear actuator 2100 powered by and wired to repeat cycle timers 2200 2201 or relay board 1801 in a similar manner as disclosed for other pump directional valve linear actuators, and timed to ensure back and forth motion of the piston of cylinder 2000, with repeat cycle timers 2200 2201 or relay board 1801 wired to battery 1602 through power switch 1600, with the handle of pump 2001 operated by motor 1105, for piston of cylinder 2000 to operate the handle of pump 1101, where when such a force providing device is providing the amount of force to operate one or more other force providing device(s), and that force providing device is in turn operated by a motor providing the amount of force required to operate it, energy consumption in the system is further reduced, where either elevating supports are added under the pumps and cylinders operated by piston of hydraulic cylinder 2000 with appropriate adjustments to impacted components, or cylinder 2000 may be mounted with additional appropriate supports in an inverted position above the handles it will operate, so that the cylinders corresponding to the operated handles rest on the existing support structure.  the speed of the force providing device operating the handles may be n times slower than the speed of the motor previously operating the handles, thus the output calculations may utilize cycle power consumption increased n times to compensate, and or embodiment components including medium container sizes and corresponding force providing devices may be adjusted to compensate for the speed reduction, where n may be best obtained by timing the force providing device operating cycle once implemented.  For example, in reference to FIG. 2, if hydraulic cylinder 2000 and corresponding hydraulic pump 2001 are provide 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) of force, and pump 2001 has its handle powered by motor 1105 providing 1 pounds (0.45 kilograms) of force while consuming 10 watts, with the hydraulics in turn providing the 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) of force to operate the handle of the primary pump, the energy consumption if running continuously, would be per day approximately 864,000 watts (10 watts per second * 86,400 seconds per day), while the output per day of the generator is 5,975,000 watts (10,000 watts per second * 86,400 seconds per day * (8.3 second cycle run time / (120 second force providing device transition * 10 times slower))), or if center medium tanks are used that prevent medium transference interruption, the output per day of the generator is 864,000,000 watts (10,000 watts per second * 86,400 seconds per day), thus operating with a near perfect input output efficiency ratio.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to reduce the force required to power the force providing device pump handle, a more powerful force providing device than is required to circulate the medium may be used.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, in reference to FIG. 2, containing some components in FIG. 1, hydraulic cylinder 2000 or hydraulic motor with a corresponding automated manual hydraulic pump 2001 or a bottle jack providing 100,000 pounds (45,360 kilograms) of force, automated through wiring of corresponding linear actuators or motors wired to repeat cycle timers and or relay boards in the manner provided in this disclosure, provides force to operate the handles of not only pump 1101 but also the handles of up to roughly 10,000 additional force providing pumps (100,000 pounds of output force / 10 pounds of input force required) with corresponding cylinders or hydraulic or pneumatic motors, or bottle jacks, providing 100,000 pounds (45,360 kilograms) of force each, with the force from the pistons interconnected by means which may include metal bars, with appropriately added and adjusted supporting components, with those pumps directional valves also operated by linear actuators and repeat cycle timers wired in a manner similar to that described in this disclosure, or where all directional valves are interconnected and operated by another automated piston operated on an appropriately timed cycle, providing roughly 1,000,000,000 pounds (10,000 hydraulics * 100,000 pounds of output force each) (454,000,000 kilograms) of force to lift a container holding 119,904,000 gallons of water (1,000,000,000 pounds of lift / 8.34 pounds per gallon), using the energy consumed by a single relatively small electric motor consuming 10 watts and supporting directional valve linear actuators and repeat cycle timers, utilizing roughly 12,000 watts (10 watts consumed per second * 120 lift cycle seconds * 10 times slow down when operating hydraulics with hydraulics) to lift the water which will flow for 11.5 days (119,904,000 gallons / 120 gallons per second) providing 9,992,000,000 watts (10,000 watts per second * 999,200 seconds), thus operating with a near perfect input output efficiency ratio.  In another example of input output efficiency, hydraulics provided 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) of input force, to provide 100,000 pounds (45,360 kilograms) of output force, over a pump handle cycle time of 25 seconds when using hydraulics and 1 second when using an electric motor, layered 3 times, where the pistons of a layer operate the handles of the following layer until the last layer provides output force, not including the first hydraulics as a layer, provides for a total of 100 million output providing units ((100,000 pounds of output force / 10 pounds of input force) ^ layers) which provide 10 trillion pounds of output force (100,000,000 units providing output force * 100,000 pounds of output force per unit), completing a cycle in a little over 10 minutes ((25 seconds ^ layers) + 1 second), all while utilizing only 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) of input force.  Archimedes is recorded as having stated "Give me a lever and a place to stand and I will move Earth."  Utilizing this system, braced against a celestial body of appropriate mass and trajectory, Archimedes could have moved Earth with the force of his hand.  Such an embodiment may be made possible by an additional law of physics discovered by the inventor, where layered leverage provides efficiency gains as a result of gains in layer output force (total output = (unit output force / unit input force) ^ layers) exceeding gains in layer cycle time (total cycle time = unit cycle time ^ layers).  if any utilized commodity component, such as the force providing devices and or operating motors, doesn't perform with the force or speed expected, units of that component may simply be added.  In some embodiments, such layered force providing device arrangements may be built directly into other force providing devices.  Therefore, embodiments can provide for a self-powered generator and motor that can easily be brought up to any level of output, allowing for clean continuous self-powered electricity generation and fuel free propulsion, all at a cost that is effectively zero when amortized over time.

To determine the force providing cylinders(s) and pump(s) to select corresponding to the determined specifications, the manufacturer's product guide is used.  In some embodiments, to determine the force providing cylinders(s) and pump(s) to select corresponding to the determined specifications, calculations may be made, where a cylinder may be selected based on factors including the previously determined piston extension length and being rated to support the previously determined force, while a corresponding pump may be selected based on its output of pounds (kilograms) of pressure per square inch (centimeter) which provides force, flow in gallons (liters) per minute which provides speed, and reservoir gallons (liters) which must adequately fill the cylinder, where the internal area of the cylinder to determine pump gallons (liters) required may be calculated as the constant Pi of 3.14 multiplied by the diameter of the piston multiplied by the extension length of the piston, while the speed of the piston in inches (centimeters) per minute may be calculated as the internal area of the piston divided by the gallons (liters) per minute provided by the pump, and pounds (kilograms) of pressure per square inch (centimeter) required of the pump may be determined by setting the pounds of output force required equal to piston diameter multiplied by the constant Pi 3.14 multiplied by pounds (kilograms) of pressure per square inch (centimeter), where if such calculations call for more powerful pumps and cylinders than can be operated in a net positive energy system, pumps and cylinders may instead be used that provide required force but at a slower transition speed so as to consume less energy than produced in the system.  For example, to provide 10,000 pounds (4,535 kilograms) of force moving at 1 inch per second over 12 inches (30 centimeters), using a cylinder with a piston of the corresponding extension length of 12 inches (30 centimeters) with a 2 inch (5 centimeter) diameter and thus an internal area of 0.33 gallons (2 inch diameter * 3.14 Pi  * 12 inches) (1.23 liters), requires a pump with a corresponding tank size of 0.33 gallons (1.23 liters) that provides flow of 3.96 gallons per minute (0.33 gallons * (1 inch piston extension per second * 12 inches)) (15 liters) at 1,592 pounds of pressure per square inch (10,000 pounds of required output force = (3.14 Pi * 2 inch piston diameter) * pounds of pressure per square inch)) (722 kilograms of pressure per 6.54 square centimeters).  In another example, to provide 100,000 pounds (45,350 kilograms) of force otherwise utilizing the same specifications requires 15,923 (7,220 kilograms) pounds of pressure per square inch (100,000 pounds of required output force = (3.14 pi * 2 inch piston diameter) * pounds of pressure per square inch)).  However, in another example, to reduce the pounds (kilograms) of input pressure per square inch (centimeter) required in the previous example by 10 times, the diameter of the piston is increased 10 times, resulting in a requirement of 1,592 pounds of pressure per square inch (100,000 pounds of required output force = (3.14 pi * 20 inch piston diameter) * pounds of pressure per square inch)) (722 kilograms of pressure per 6.45 square centimeters).  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the gain in efficiency provided by certain force providing device configurations, which may include reducing input force required relative to output force, may contribute to energy being captured in an embodiment in excess of that consumed by the embodiment.

In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, double acting hydraulic cylinder 1100 is instead, in reference to FIG. 3, double acting hydraulic cylinder 3000, operated by electric double acting hydraulic pump 3100, which is operated by pump switch 3101, operated by motor 3200 which has welded to its axle rod 3201 to press the buttons on pump switch 3200, with the switch operating motor secured to the switch by metal clamp 3202, with motor 3200 operated by repeat cycle timers disclosed in a later step, or with the pump switch cut off and the operating wires connected to repeat cycle timers in a similar manner, to raise and lower the liquid container support platforms on a cycle that allows each tank to become approximately full and empty on each cycle.

In some embodiments, other means of leverage, including hydraulic, pneumatic, or mechanical, controlled electronically or manually, may be used.  In some embodiments, commodity hydraulic jacks, which may be operated electronically, may operate the medium container platform and corresponding tanks.  In some embodiments, the force providing devices rest on the steel support beams of the support structure.  In some embodiments, a screw jack may be used.  In some embodiments, a hydraulic or pneumatic screw jack may be used, where the motor on the traditional screw jack is replaced with a hydraulic or pneumatic device operating in its place.  In some embodiments, a hydraulic motor may operate the platform by means which may include a linked chain providing force to the platform handle through a pulley system.  In some embodiments, a hydraulic motor powered medium pump may provide force to circulate a medium past the turbine.

Step 5: secure medium containers to the support platform and connect piping between medium containers and around turbine.  the pipes may be made of the same material as the tanks, and connected and secured in place through means which may include welding or industrial sealant.  in reference to FIG. 1, tanks 1200 1201 are placed on platform beams 1006 1008, pipe 1300 is connected from the top of the tank 1200 to the bottom of pipe connector 1308, and pipe 1301 is connected from the bottom of tank 1200 to the top of pipe connector 1302, and pipe 1303 is connected to the top of tank 1201 and the bottom of pipe connector 1308, pipe 1303 is connected from the bottom of tank 1201 to the top of pipe 1302, where drop pipe 1305 provides the medium drop to create pressure to elbow joint 1306, which connects to pipe 1307, which encloses the turbine, with pipe 1307 connected to base support 1014, with pipe 1307 connected to tee joint pipe connector 1308, to drop a medium into the medium tanks, with pipe connector 1308 having a hole drilled through, sealed by elastomer seal 1318, through which the axle of turbine 1400 passes through and has mounted to it gear 1401, which may be a worm gear if the turbine axle is perpendicular to the generator axle, which is connects with complimentary gear 1501, with a teeth ratio to provide the previously determined increase in speed and proportional reduction of force, with gear 5015 coupled by means which may include welding to the axle of generator 1500, where because a Kaplan turbine is oriented to have a vertically extending axle, generator 1500 may mounted to the support structure vertically above the turbine, ensuring that the generator axle rotates in the designed direction for electricity generation, and if not the generator and or other relevant components are repositioned accordingly, with corresponding changes to pipe positions.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the center pipes and generator are fixed in place to the support structure, with flexible hoses between the pipe connectors 1302 and 1308, allowing the center components to remain fixed in place as the outer pipes move.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to provide greater efficiency by removing the friction of an elbow joint, turbine 1400 is oriented vertically in pipe 1305 rather than horizontally, with a corresponding adjustment to positioning of generator 1500.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, water pipe 1305 provides a greater drop height to increase pressure on the turbine and thus increase output, with supporting components adjusted accordingly.

Step 6: connect a battery and power switch.  A battery which may be in the form of uninterruptable power supply, allows the unit to start and provide output and power components during tank transitions, where the battery receives power from the generator.  in reference to FIG. 1, battery 1600 allows the unit to turn on when a medium isn't flowing through the system, where the battery provides the current type, voltage, amperes, and hertz required to provide power to repeat cycle timers 1700 1701, the pump handle motor 1105, and pump directional valve linear actuator 1102, where the output wires of generator 1500 are connected to the battery to recharge it, and may be connected through an overcharge controller, and or an electrical converter, and or a resistor, if there is a mismatch of current type, voltage, amperes, or hertz, or the strength of the electrical output from the generator would damage the embodiment components, where the battery is attached to support structure by means which provide for replaceability, such as metal brackets coupled through mounting holes with corresponding holes drilled in the support structure, where power switch 1600 turns the unit on or off, by opening and closing the circuit between the battery 1602, the electronically controlled pump motor 1105, and the repeat cycle timers 1700 1701 which power pump valve linear actuator 1102, where the power switch is externally accessible to the operator, and may be attached to the unit, by means including bolts or screws.

Step 7: implement a timer based control system.  A repeat cycle timer is a commodity component that's used to operate electronics, such as a sprinkler system, by turning the system on at a fixed interval, running it for a fixed interval, turning the system off for a fixed interval, and looping the cycle.  The instructions for configuring the timers, when purchased from a quality supplier, will be in the manual accompanying the timers.  For example, some timers may have positive and negative terminals for each the power source and the device, along with a knob to set the seconds on per cycle, and a knob to set the seconds off per cycle.  In some embodiments, the functional equivalent of a repeat cycle timer may be used, including a computer controlled relay board operated by computer commands to open and close the circuits to produce the same effect, and or to turn the units on and off to meet peak demand at specific times or based on current consumption.  motors including those driving linear actuators may be utilized that have two wires and are operable in both directions, driven by for example a reversible brushed direct current motor, though other types of motors may be utilized which may have additional wires to be wired in the manner corresponding to their accompanying instructions.

The timers are set to operate the hydraulics to raise for the previously determined cycle, hold for previously determined medium container emptying time, then lower for the previously determined cycle time, hold for the previously determined medium container emptying time, and repeat, but are to be adjusted based on the performance of the purchased components by observing embodiment operation.

In reference to FIG. 1, repeat cycle timers 1700 1701 are selected to support powered components and operate pump directional valve linear actuator 1102, in a timed back and forth cycle timed to allow the medium containers to fully empty and fill each transition, thereby ensuring continuous motion is provided in the system, where repeat cycle timers 1700 1701 open and close circuits that cause the pump directional valve to raise and lower the piston of cylinder 1100, on the previously determined interval, and for the previously determined interval, with positive wire of linear actuator 1102 attached to both repeat cycle timer 1700 positive terminal, and repeat cycle timer 1701 negative terminal, and negative wire of linear actuator 1102 attached to repeat cycle timer 1700 negative terminal and repeat cycle timer 1701 positive terminal, with repeat cycle timers 1700 and 1701 each connected to the corresponding positive and negative terminals of battery 1602.  In some embodiments, where an electronic hydraulic pump is used, the pump switch is either operated by linear actuator 1102, or the switch is removed and its operating wires are directly connected to repeat cycle timers in the manner previously described to allow the medium tanks to empty and fill during each transition.  The repeat cycle timers may be attached to a support structure beam 1000 using bolts or straps, which makes them replaceable, or any other method as long as it doesn't damage the timers.  In some embodiments, wiring to repeat cycle timers or functional equivalents may be done in any manner that achieves the desired effect.

In some embodiments, the equivalent of a repeat cycle timer may be used, where a computer controlled relay board 1801 is wired in the same manner as the commodity repeat cycle timers, and a computer 1800 is embedded in the unit which uses software to operate a computer controlled relay board, with a connected motor, to perform the functions of a repeat cycle timer, with the code to operate the computer controlled relay board later disclosed to write operating software.

Step 8: connect an electrical power output connector and converter if required.  in reference to FIG. 1, a commodity power connector 1601 may be added between the generator and be externally accessible to the user, which may be in the form of an outlet or positive and negative terminals.  In some embodiments, where the generator does not provide output as desired including current type, amperes, voltage, and hertz, a commodity power converter providing appropriate adjustments may be wired between the generator and the power output connector 1601.

Step 9: optionally utilize software for unit operation and or to control an array of units.  In embodiments where a computer is embedded in the unit, a computer may be used that runs custom software on startup, and may be connected to a network accessible relay board.  The software code to operate the computer connected relay board, may resemble that described below.  In some embodiments, the computer may be a Raspberry Pi, connected to an Ethernet controlled relay board through and Ethernet crossover cable, with the computer set on startup to run software developed in the Python language from the disclosed description, where the software is installed by connecting to the computer through telnet or secure shell, then at the command prompt typing "nano run.py" and adding and saving the software code, then at the command prompt typing "nano /etc/rc.local" and adding and saving the line "python /$location/run.py", where $location is the path to the directory containing the previously created software file.

The software code to operate the computer connected relay board may be found in the same archive as this document.

When a large number of generator units are being operated concurrently, to turn the units on and off at specific times and or based on current power consumption, network accessible relay boards may be installed in the units, and wired in place of or in addition to the power switch to be able turn the units on and off, and may be controlled by a computer running software provide available in the archive containing this document.

Step 10: construct and attach a protective enclosure.  in reference to FIG. 1, a protective enclosure 1900 houses all of the components, to protect the electronic components from external elements, to protect the operator from the force providing devices, tank weights, and the extraordinarily rare event of a cylinder explosion, and may be shaped to fit around the support structure, and may be made of a material such as sheets of steel, plastic, or carbon fiber, formed by means which may include fabrication or welding in the dimensions of the unit and may allow power connector 1601 and the power switch 1600 to be externally accessible to the operator.

Step 11: validate functionality and output of unit.
